Create Cloud_Connection_Issues.md (#2666)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Troubleshooting/Procedures/Remote_Connecting_Issues.md

---
uid: Remote_Connecting_Issues
---

# Remote Connecting Issues

> If you're encountering issues with remote connections, here are some common problems and potential solutions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the guide below when you're encountering connection issues with dataminer.services features and your DMS.
```

## Check CloudGateway Status

> One of the common issues why the remote access is unavailable is due to the CloudGateway DxM not being up. In this way it is impossible to connect with the DataMiner Agent using remote instances. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common cause for issues with dataminer.services features and your DMS is due to the connection from the CloudGateway DxM towards dataminer.services being unavailable.
```

> The following possible options may be the solution to the problem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolve this by taking the following steps:
```

> 1. Verify whether CloudGateway DxM is running. If not, start it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify whether the installed CloudGateway DxMs are running, otherwise start them.
```

Reviewer: also valid for other DxMs so might need to be adjusted some more

> 2. Restart the CloudGateway DxM to refresh its state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Consider upgrading the CloudGateway DxM (and other DxMs in the Cloud Pack) to the latest version. Mostly an update can resolve connectivity issues.

Reviewer: I think md will number them correctly, in that case let's just put `1.` everywhere.
```suggestion
1. Make sure to have the most recent versions of the DxMs installed to avoid dealing with issues that might have been fixed yet.
```
Maybe add a link to the change log here, and how to update dxms (docs)

## Check DMS Status

> It could be that the DataMiner is offline or stopped.  It's recommended to verify the status of the DMS and ensure that the system is operational, if not, start the DMS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify the status of the DMS and ensure that the system is operational, if not, start the DMS. 
```

> Additionally, confirm if the version of DataMiner System being used is compatible for remote connections. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
